## 1. Overview

The Java Programming Language features eight primitive data types.

In this article, we'll recall what primitives are and go over them.

## 2. Primitive Data Types

**They're stored directly on the stack** 

|   Type    | Size (bits) | Minimum |    Maximum     |             Example             |
| :-------: | ----------- | :-----: | :------------: | :-----------------------------: |
|  *byte*   | 8           |   -27   |     27– 1      |         *byte b = 100;*         |
|  *short*  | 16          |  -215   |     215– 1     |       *short s = 30_000;*       |
|   *int*   | 32          |  -231   |     231– 1     |     *int i = 100_000_000;*      |
|  *long*   | 64          |  -263   |     263– 1     | *long l = 100_000_000_000_000;* |
|  *float*  | 32          | -2-149  | (2-2-23)·2127  |       *float f = 1.456f;*       |
| *double*  | 64          | -2-1074 | (2-2-52)·21023 | *double f = 1.456789012345678;* |
|  *char*   | 16          |    0    |     216– 1     |         *char c = ‘c';*         |
| *boolean* | 1           |    –    |       –        |       *boolean b = true;*       |

### 2.1. *int*

 **Java stores it using 32 bits of memory**

**The default value of an \*int\* declared without an assignment is 0.**

**If the variable is defined in a method, we must assign a value before we can use it.**

### 2.2. *byte*

**it only takes up 8 bits of memory**.

**The default value of \*byte\* is also 0.**

### 2.3. *short*

the default value is 0

### 2.4. *long*

**It's stored in 64 bits of memory** 

### 2.5. *float*

We represent basic fractional numbers in Java using the *float* type. This is a single-precision decimal number. Which means if we get past six decimal points, this number becomes less precise and more of an estimate.

In most cases, we don't care about the precision loss. But, if our calculation requires absolute precision (i.e., financial operations, landing on the moon, etc.) we need to use specific types designed for this work. For more information, check out the Java class [Big Decimal](https://www.baeldung.com/java-bigdecimal-biginteger).

**And the default value is 0.0 instead of 0**

### 2.6. *double*

 it's a double-precision decimal number.

**It's stored in 64 bits of memory.** 

**The default value is also 0.0 as it is with** ***float.*** Similar to *float,* we attach the letter *D* to designate the literal as a double.

### 2.7. *boolean*

The simplest primitive data type is *boolean*. It can contain only two values: *true* or *false*. **It stores its value in a single bit.**

**However, for convenience, Java pads the value and stores it in a single byte.**

Declaring it without a value defaults to *false*.

### 2.8. *char*

The final primitive data type to look at is *char*.

Also called a character, *char* is a 16-bit integer representing a Unicode-encoded character. Its range is from 0 to 65,535. Which in Unicode represents *‘\u0000'* to *‘\uffff'*.

For a list of all possible Unicode values check out sites like [Unicode Table](https://unicode-table.com/en/).

A characters default value is *‘/u0000'.*

### 2.9. Overflow

The primitive data types have size limits. But what happens if we try to store a value that's larger than the maximum value?

**We run into a situation called \*overflow\*.**

When an integer overflows, it rolls over to the minimum value and begins counting up from there.

Floating point number overflow by returning Infinity. When they underflow, they return 0.0.

*Underflow* is the same issue except if we store a value smaller than the minimum value.

### 2.10. Autoboxing

Each primitive data type also has a full Java class implementation that can wrap it. For instance, the *Integer* class can wrap an *int*. There is sometimes a need to convert from the primitive type to its object wrapper (e.g., using them with [generics](https://www.baeldung.com/java-generics)).

Luckily, Java can perform this conversion for us automatically. We call this process *Autoboxing*. Here is an example:

## 3. Conclusion

In this tutorial, we've covered the eight primitive data types supported in Java.

These are the building blocks used by most, of not all Java programs out there – so it's well worth understanding how they work.

## 参考

https://www.baeldung.com/java-primitives

