# Guide to Character Encoding

### **Encoding**

Computers can only understand binary representations like *1* and *0*. Processing anything else requires some kind of mapping from the real-world text to its binary representation. **This mapping is what we know as \*character encoding\* or simply just as \*encoding\***.

For example, the first letter in our message, “T”, in US-ASCII *encodes* to “01010100”.

### **Charsets**

The mapping of characters to their binary representations can vary greatly in terms of the characters they include. The number of characters included in a mapping can vary from only a few to all the characters in practical use. **The set of characters that are included in a mapping definition is formally called a \*charset\***.

For example, [ASCII has a charset of 128 characters](http://ee.hawaii.edu/~tep/EE160/Book/chap4/subsection2.1.1.1.html).

### Code Point

A code point is an abstraction that separates a character from its actual encoding. **A \*code point\* is an integer reference to a particular character.**

We can represent the integer itself in plain decimal or alternate bases like hexadecimal or octal. We use alternate bases for the ease of referring large numbers.

For example, the first letter in our message, T, in Unicode has a code point “U+0054” (or 84 in decimal).

## **Understanding Encoding Schemes**

A character encoding can take various forms depending upon the number of characters it encodes.

The number of characters encoded has a direct relationship to the length of each representation which typically is measured as the number of bytes. **Having more characters to encode essentially means needing lengthier binary representations.**

Let's go through some of the popular encoding schemes in practice today.

### **Who Uses the Default Charset**

Many of the Java APIs make use of the default charset as determined by the JVM. To name a few:

- *InputStreamReader* and *FileReader*
- *OutputStreamWriter* and *FileWriter*
- *Formatter* and *Scanner*
- [*URLEncoder* and *URLDecoder*](https://www.baeldung.com/java-url-encoding-decoding)



## Issuers:

## 1. java10-lombok maven 编译出现初始化异常：com/sun/tools/javac/code/TypeTags

原因：lombok版本太低了，不支持java10 
升级版本：>= 1.18.0

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.projectlombok</groupId>
    <artifactId>lombok</artifactId>
    <version>1.18.0</version>
</dependency>
```

